----------If----------
If: This is the most common conditional marker. "If it rains, we will stay home."

Unless: This is used to express a condition, and it roughly means 'if not'. "Unless you study, you will fail the exam."

In case: This is used to talk about things we should do in order to be ready for possible future situations. "Take an umbrella in case it rains."

Provided/providing (that): This means 'if' or 'on condition that'. "You can go to the party, provided that you finish your homework first."

As long as: This means 'if' or 'on condition that'. "You can use my car as long as you fill up the gas tank."

Suppose/supposing (that): This can be used to suggest a hypothetical situation. "Suppose you won the lottery, what would you do?"

On (the) condition that: This is a formal way to say 'if' or 'provided that'. "He agreed to pay on the condition that the goods were delivered by Friday."

Even if: This is used to emphasize that although something might happen or might be true, it doesn't change the situation. "I'm going out even if it rains."

Only if: This emphasizes that a certain condition is the only circumstance in which something will happen. "She will come to the party only if her best friend comes."

Assuming (that): This is used to suppose hypothetically. "Assuming it's sunny tomorrow, we'll go to the beach."

Should: In some contexts, 'should' can be used to introduce a conditional clause. "Should it rain, we'll stay indoors."



----------else----------
Otherwise: It is used to indicate what will happen if a condition is not met. "Finish your homework, otherwise you won't be allowed to go to the park."

Or: It is used to indicate a consequence or alternative if a condition is not met. "You need to study hard, or you might fail the exam."

Or else: It's a stronger, more urgent way to express a consequence if a condition is not met. "You must leave now, or else you'll miss your train."

If not: This phrase can be used similarly to "else" to indicate a different outcome if the first part of the condition isn't met. "You should aim to arrive early; if not, you might not get a seat."

Lest: It's a more formal and somewhat archaic word that means "for fear that" or "in case". "Work hard, lest you should fail."